feat(kubernetes): companion tutorial to k8s video (#505)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/get-started-containers-docker/index.mdx

* **Kubernetes**: An [open source container orchestration platform](https://kubernetes.io/), designed to automate the deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.

While these concepts can seem quite abstract and overwhelming, in reality if you do everything in order it is not difficult or scary. The general order of events is:

1. Build your application
2. Containerize it with Docker
3. Use Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment of your containerized app at the appropriate scale.

There are many advantages to building and deploying applications in this way. Here are just a few advantages of this type of deployment, with containers and Kubernetes:
- **Portability**: Containerized applications can be run on any cloud, platform or machine.
- **Efficiency**: Containerization uses fewer resources than Virtual Machines.
- **Agility**: With containerization, development and delivery is faster, more agile and more flexible.
- **Scalability**: Kubernetes is ideal for quickly scaling your application deployment up or down adding and removing containers depending on the need.
- **Reliability**: Kubernetes keeps containerized workloads up and running at all times

> And encompassing all of the above...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And encompassing all of the above:
```

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io
    ```

2. Update the apt package cache:

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

3. Install some required packages for Docker. Docker uses HTTPS for its repository, so we make sure we have everything needed to download Docker with a secure connection:

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
    ```

4. Add Docker's [GPG key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Privacy_Guard), used to authenticate the Docker content and updates we download to our machine:

    ```bash
    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    ```

5. Add the reference to Docker's remote repository. This tells our local machine the remote storage location from which it should get and install Docker and any future updates:

    ```bash
    sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
    ```

6. Update the apt package cache again:

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

7. Install the Docker engine itself:

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install docker-ce
    ```

> 8. Check Docker is installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Check if Docker is installed:
```

    ```
    docker -v
    ```

    If Docker is successfuly installed, you should see an output confirming your version number, for example:

    ```
    Docker version 20.10.12, build e91ed57
    ```

## Creating and deploying containerized applications with Docker

We show two examples of making containerized applications with Docker and take you through the following process for each:

1. Creating the **Dockerfile**
2. Building an **image** from the Dockerfile
3. Using the image to run the **containerized application**

### Example 1 - a simple Hello World app

> We start by creating an extremely simple, one-line Python application that prints "Hello World" to the command line, then show how to use Docker to containerize this application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by creating a simple, one-line Python application that prints "Hello World" to the command line, then show how to use Docker to containerize this application.
```

  ```python
  print("Hello World")
  ```

4. Create the Dockerfile. This is a text file which gives instructions for building the Docker image for the application. Create it in the same directory as `myapp.py` with the following command

  ```bash
  nano Dockerfile
  ```

5. Copy and paste the following code into the Dockerfile, then save and exit:

  ```
  FROM python:3
  ADD myapp.py /
  CMD ["python", "./myapp.py"]
  ```

    * **FROM**: this instruction specifies the base image for the container. In our case, we take care of our python requirement.
    * **ADD**: this instruction adds files from our local machine (`myapp.py`) to the container image.
    * **CMD**: this instruction contains the command to be executed by default when the container is launched. In this case, we tell it to use python to run the `myapp.py` application.

6. Run the following command to build a Docker image for the application, using the Dockerfile just created:

  ```
  sudo docker build -t mytestapp .
  ```

  The `-t mytestapp` argument tells Docker to **tag** the image with the name **mytestapp. The `.` at the end of the command tells Docker to use the current directory as build context.

> 7. Run the following command to run the image. This tells Docker to instanciate and execute the image, launching a container instance of our application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Run the following command to run the image. This tells Docker to instantiate and execute the image, launching a container instance of our application:
```

  ```
  http://<your-ip-address>:8000
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

    If you don't know your local IP address, use the following command to find out:

    ```
    hostname --all-ip-addresses | awk '{print $1}'
    ```

  </Message>

  You should see that the container image is printing out its container ID at the endpoint, with an output similar to the following:

  ```
  I'm 41ed60d6177a
  ```

  The container ID should match that which you saw with the `docker ps` command.  

8. Run the following command in your terminal to shut down the container. Replace `<container-ID>` with the ID for your container.

  ```
  sudo docker kill <container-ID>
  ```

9. Run `sudo docker ps` and/or refresh the endpoint in your browser, to show that the container is no longer running.

## Pushing to the Scaleway Container Registry

To finish, we push the Docker images we have created to a container registry. Container registries are designed to store container images, and make them accessible to those who need them. There are many different container registry platforms, but here we use the [Scaleway Container Registry](https://www.scaleway.com/en/container-registry/).

> 1. Open a browser and go to the [Scaleway console's Container Registry page](https://console.scaleway.com/registry/namespaces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a browser and go to the [Scaleway Console's Container Registry page](https://console.scaleway.com/registry/namespaces).
```

Author: can't remember if we already discussed this in Slack, but handbook = Scaleway console

  The following steps should be carried out in the terminal of your local machine:

3. Log in to your Container Registry namespace:

  ```bash
  sudo docker login <address-of-your-namespace> -u nologin -p $SCW_SECRET_TOKEN
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

  Ensure that you replace `<address-of-your-namespace>` with the address of your own Container Registry namespace (eg `rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/mynamespace`) and that you have [created your API key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/) and that you have saved the secret part of your API key as an environment variable e.g. with the command `export SCW_SECRET_TOKEN=a4db08b7-5723-4ba9-8c18-f2de493465a2`

  </Message>

4. Tag the image you want to push with the address of your Container Registry namespace:

  ```bash
  sudo docker tag mytestapp <address-of-your-namespace>/mytestapp
  ```

5. Push the tagged image to the Container Registry namespace:

  ```bash
  sudo docker push <address-of-your-namespace>/mytestapp
  ```

6. Refresh your Container Registry namespace in the browser to ensure your image has been successfuly pushed.

## Conclusion

> You have seen how to containerize an application by creating a Dockerfile, using the Dockerfile to build a Docker image, and then running the containerized application from the image. As well as this, you can then push the image to a container registry, so that it can be pulled by other users who want to run the application. Future tutorials in this series will show you how to create a Kubernetes Kapsule in the Scaleway console, and use that to deploy your containerized application at scale. We'll then go on to cover more advanced topics such as load balancing your application and managing its storage. Don't hesitate to check out some of the links below in the meantime!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have seen how to containerize an application by creating a Dockerfile, using the Dockerfile to build a Docker image, and then running the containerized application from the image. As well as this, you can then push the image to a container registry, so that it can be pulled by other users who want to run the application. Future tutorials in this series will show you how to create a Kubernetes Kapsule in the Scaleway Console, and use that to deploy your containerized application at scale. We'll then go on to cover more advanced topics such as load balancing your application and managing its storage. Don't hesitate to check out some of the links below in the meantime!
```
